.TH TMUZIKA 1 "March 2026" "tmuzika 1.1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tmuzika \- terminal music player with integrated file manager, playlist, and CLI support

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmuzika
.RI [ options ] 
.TP
.B -p <file> or <folder/> or <m3u>
Play a single audio file, load a folder, or load an M3U playlist.
.TP
.B -r <url>
Play a radio station or load an M3U radio playlist.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmuzika
is a terminal-based music player written in C, using ncurses for the interface and GStreamer for audio playback.  
It features an integrated file manager, playlist support, keyboard-driven controls, CLI mode, bookmarks, and full internationalization support (i18n).

The interface is designed for efficient keyboard navigation.  
The file manager supports adding single files or entire folders with all music inside.


.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Audio Playback
Play individual audio files or playlists (.m3u).

.TP
.B File Manager
Browse directories, copy, cut, paste, rename, delete files, undo operations, search, manage bookmarks, and add entire folders of music.

.TP
.B Playlist Management
Save/load m3u playlists, jump to current song, delete songs, and repeat options.

.TP
.B CLI Mode
Play a song, radio station or playlist directly from the terminal:
.RS
$ tmuzika -p song.mp3  
$ tmuzika -p playlist.m3u
$ tmuzika -p folder/  
$ tmuzika -r url-radio.station
$ tmuzika -r radio.m3u  
$ tmuzika -h
$ tmuzika --play song.mp3  
$ tmuzika --play playlist.m3u
$ tmuzika --play folder/  
$ tmuzika --radio url-radio.station
$ tmuzika --radio radio.m3u   
$ tmuzika --help    
.RE

.TP
.B Keyboard Control
All actions are accessible via intuitive keybindings.

.TP
.B Internationalization
Supports multiple languages, including English, Serbian Cyrillic, and Serbian Latin.

.TP
.B Conky Integration
tmuzika can export current playback information to temporary files in /tmp.  
These files can be displayed by external tools like Conky:
.RS
/tmp/tmuzika_status
/tmp/tmuzika_title
/tmp/tmuzika_artist
/tmp/tmuzika_album
/tmp/tmuzika_track
/tmp/tmuzika_elapsed
/tmp/tmuzika_length
.RE
.TP
Example Conky snippet:
.RS
TEXT
${if_running tmuzika}
${if_match "${env LANG}" "sr_RS.UTF-8"}
• Слушам: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_status} ${execi 2 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_title}
Извођач: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_artist}
Албум: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_album}
Трака бр.: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_track}
Преостало: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_elapsed} | ${execi 2 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_length}
${else}${if_match "${env LANG}" "sr_RS@latin.UTF-8"}
• Slušam: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_status} ${execi 2 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_title}
Izvođač: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_artist}
Album: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_album}
Numera: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_track}
Vreme: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_elapsed} | ${execi 2 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_length}
${else}
• Now playing: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_status} ${execi 2 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_title}
Artist: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_artist}
Album: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_album}
Track: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_track}
Time: ${execi 3 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_elapsed} | ${execi 2 grep -m1 . /tmp/tmuzika_length}
${endif}
${endif}
${else}
${endif}
.RE
.TP
Note: Conky must be installed and running, and tmuzika must be playing audio.


.SH KEY BINDINGS

.SS General Playback
.TP
.B ENTER
Play selected song / radio station.
.TP
.B SPACE
Pause / continue.
.TP
.B [
Scroll left.
.TP
.B ]
Scroll right.
.TP
.B z
Stop playback.
.TP
.B d
Add radio station.
.TP
.B >
Next song / radio station.
.TP
.B <
Previous song / radio station.
.TP
.B +
Volume up.
.TP
.B -
Volume down.
.TP
.B <-
Rewind 10s.
.TP
.B ->
Forward 10s.
.TP
.B s
Search.
.TP
.B o
Open configuration menu (colors / key bindings) from any mode
.TP
.B p
Repeat current song.
.TP
.B l
Repeat entire playlist.
.TP
.B e
Shuffle.
.TP
.B r
Radio mode.
.TP
.B m
File manager.
.TP
.B q
Save m3u playlist.
.TP
.B u
Load m3u playlist / m3u radio playlist.
.TP
.B v
Go to the current song / radio station.
.TP
.B x
Delete song / radio station from playlist.
.TP
.B DELETE
Delete all songs / radio station from playlist.
.TP
.B HOME
Go to the first song.
.TP
.B END
Go to the last song.
.TP
.B ?
Display help screen for current mode
.TP
.B k
Exit program.

.SS File Manager
.TP
.B ENTER
Enter directory / add song / add .m3u playlist / radio m3u.
.TP
.B BACKSPACE
Go back.
.TP
.B ctrl+h
Toggle hidden files.
.TP
.B f / F
Add folder / add current folder (all music inside is added automatically).
.TP
.B m
Select files / folders.
.TP
.B ctrl+a
Select all files.
.TP
.B d
Add multiple files.
.TP
.B s
Search.
.TP
.B o
Open configuration menu (colors / key bindings) from any mode
.TP
.B h
Reset key
.TP
.B b
Reset color
.TP
.B ctrl+n
Create new folder.
.TP
.B ctrl+t
Create new file.
.TP
.B F2
Rename file / folder.
.TP
.B c
Copy.
.TP
.B x
Cut.
.TP
.B v
Paste.
.TP
.B u
Undo last action.
.TP
.B ctrl+p
Change file permissions (chmod).
.TP
.B ctrl+o
Open terminal.
.TP
.B DELETE
Remove file / folder.
.TP
.B ctrl+b
Add bookmark.
.TP
.B ctrl+d
Remove bookmark.
.TP
.B 1-9
Go to bookmark 1–9.
.TP
.B ?
Display help screen for current mode
.TP
.B ESC
Quit file manager.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LANG, LC_ALL
Used to determine interface language.

.TP
.B HOME/.tmuzika
User configuration and data directory (playlists, cache, settings, etc.).


.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.


.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.tmuzika/
User configuration and data directory (playlists, cache, settings, etc.).


.SH AUTHOR
Ivan Janković


.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ncurses (3),
.BR gstreamer (1)
